I grew up in a family of perfectionists. My dad is a mechanical engineer and my mom is an artist; both are in fields demanding precision. My grandfather is the CEO of a corporation and is notorious for demanding perfection from his employees. My brother is an elite gymnast and would not be where he is today if it were not for his extremely rigorous, scheduled, workouts. The lists of perfectionists goes on, but I've made my point. I grew up surrounded by people who were never.. quite.. satisfied. There is a running "joke" in my family that nothing is ever "good", it's "not bad."

Growing up, I certainly did not realize that everyone around me was a perfectionist. I assumed other families were just as precise in their daily chores as we were, that others took their studies just as seriously, and that everyone valued "a job well done!" These are nationally recognized values, pillars of The American Dream, who would dare argue with these Truths? And so I spent days perfecting everything from my multiplication tables to Bach's Invention Number 8. My desires to learn more, achieve more, and do more continued to grow. Entering my junior year of high school I started to contemplate college and my future career. I experimented with many majors and careers, ultimately settling on biology/pre-med. I would become a doctor.

And so I left for college. I enrolled in chemistry, biology, anatomy, etc. I enjoyed it. I was excelling and felt accomplished. With each class and each 'A' I was one step closer to med school and one step closer to being "Doctor Brewer." I watched my peers drop out of the pre-med program, one by one, secretly feeling superior as I continued on. Psh, organic chemistry might be hard, but it wasn't going to keep me from being a doctor!

Fortunately, I realized in the middle of my junior year at Wheation that I was making a huge mistake; I didn't want to be a doctor. While I beleive I would have eventually come to this conclusion on my own, I owe partial credit to a guest-lecturer at Wheaton. The biology department hosted a Q&A with a med school admissions counselor. During the Q&A the speaker singled me out and asked why I wanted to be a doctor, surely a question common to any med school admission's counselor's arsenal. And yet, I stumbled. I rambled on about always liking a challenge, enjoying learning, and probably threw something in about "wanting to help people." He told me my answer was weak. That resonated with me and I gave serious thought to what I was doing and why I was doing it. I realized my motives were completely wrong. I wanted to be a doctor because it was the "perfect" career.

Perfectionism is a lie. The very concept assumes that perfection is attainable, which it is not. Striving for perfection is an exercise doomed for failure. It takes immense cognitive, emotional, and physical energy, and the payout is never worth the toil. Nothing you do will ever be perfect, but that is okay, and I think more people need to hear that. This is not to say that you should not work your hardest at something. I believe that the work we perform should be done to the very best of our ability, I am saying that you should not be paralyzed by the fact that what you produce might not be perfect. Do not read countless articles declaring "Ten Steps to a More Productive Life!" or "Four Things Your Startup Should Do Today!" or "Lose Fifty Pounds in One Week!" and become overwhelmed by all of the things you are not doing to make yourself a better person. We live in an ultra-consumerist society that thrives on making people feel like they need more to be fulfilled, to be more perfect.

Remember that perfection is a lie.
As is the cake.
